---
title: "Blog Genesis: In the beginning it was code"
author: Ali Abbas
tags: [Musing, Personal Development]
---

# Hello There

## Thanks for stopping by

Hey there! You’ve likely found your way here through a share of mine, or in some future state where I have figured this thing out perhaps my SOE was optimized in such a way that you made it here via search. Maybe you are taking charge of a background check on me for a new job and found your way here, in which case let me make sure my shirt is tucked in and my teeth are brushed. Regardless, I’m pleased to have you here and reading my first blog post *ever*. I hope you enjoy your stay!


My goal overall for this blog is to foster learning and growth. Even in getting this up and running, I fandangled my way through the magical world of GitHub, Repos, installing dependencies for Ruby & GIT, buying a domain, and figuring out how to get SSL working, all the while having the most surface level understanding of what any of it is and how any of it connects. To you techies out there, this is probably what you eat for breakfast. For me, I skipped breakfast and spent a good 3/4 of a day reading documentation on topics I have limited familiarity with. Shout out to all of the repos, templates, and tutorials that made it happen, I hope none of you fall apart.


## Is this thing on?

Sure, I could have done this is the *easy* way. There are enumerable guides out there on building a web presence that’s sexy and engaging. Something that “builds your brand” and “generates ad revenue.” I’ve spent a lot of time reading said guides, usually on someone else's blog, with offers to workshops and webinars, and couldn’t help but be aware that their entire blog presence was dedicated to successful blogging. I am not sure that is a model for replicated success. Sure, hosting a blog that offers to help folks make money is a sure way to get foot traffic and make yourself some money and brand recognition, but that’s not what I am here for.

Don’t get me wrong, money and fame appeal to my ego as much as the next person. Who doesn’t like stuff and things! But more than anything, I appreciate the opportunity for connection with community. Sure I could try doing that on popular social platforms, but I’d really like to limit my interface with the dopamine factory at this point in my life.

There are of course out there that offer building a website “easily” for a fee. I’ve listed to enough podcasts to know the names of *at least one*. But that would involve doing what I have been told to do. And if you happen to know me, or have had the benefit (or calamity) of working with me, you’ll know that *this isn’t my strong suit.* So why not go down a rabbit hole of code and DIY guides to make a site that I can call my own without being subject to someone else's platform? 

It’s 2023 and I’m diving right into the niche fad of 1999 with this personal blog.

## Doing things the hard way

I tend to be an introvert but I enjoy throwing myself out into social situations to validate whether my ever evolving personal philosophy holds any ground **IRL** or if these last few years of introspection, reading, and meditating have warped me into a portal far from home. 

I recently had the joy of celebrating the 32nd birthdays of two really good friends (Happy Birthday M & Y, love you both), and I struck up a good conversation with Y about his delving into the realm of AI. “Sure” he said, “I could wait to have someone else figure this out, package it up as a service, and pay for said service to take advantage of it, but there is something to be said about doing things the hard way.”

He went on to share some of his experience of figuring out things like app hosting, testing, engaging with niche communities that surround obscure frameworks and asking these perceived giants in these communities how to do the basics. It’s a humbling experience to need to ask for help, and through his experience and my own in getting this site set up, I reflected on the beauty of Open Source and what it says about human nature. We can do things the hard way - but we of course *stand on the shoulders of giants.*

I then circled around the party and received some compliments from new faces on my bald head. We (as men do) discussed our methods of shaving, and I shared how I recently made the switch from triple blade Gilette’s to ol’ fashioned straight razors. I went on to explain that while I don’t see this small act alone resolving the climate crisis, it *feels good* to tell myself I am making changes with the environment in mind. “You know there are new innovative blades made specifically for shaving heads?” remarked one gentleman. 

*It feels good to do things the hard way,* I reflected. Thus here I am, I just spent a good 30 minutes integrating a 3rd party comment section and testing it out. Aspirationally I would have preferred something self-hosted, but one part about doing things the hard way is about letting go of perfectionism. It's about taking that first step and doing the thing. Whatever the thing is. 

Pushing this out is me letting go, there are buttons on this site that don't go anywhere. That is totally ok, the post is here, that is the key. We'll get there, but we won't let it stop us from getting started.

## Onwards and Upwards

There are many new things on the horizon for me, this comes with leaving some things behind. I expect to explore topics of interest to me in leadership, culture, psychology, diversity & inclusion, yoga, video games, music, and potentially many other bits and pieces in between. If you enjoyed your time here, I hope to have you back sometime for future posts - I have an RSS feed, use it! If you didn’t, I hope at the very least I made you feel something. Can your AI assistant do that?

Until next time,

Ali

### Footnote

One other way I made this more difficult than it needed to be for myself, was decided to leverage a technique of ancient Astrologers to ascertain the most lucky time to go live. That's why of all days, this is happening on a Sunday. Perhaps more on my studies of ancient and traditional means to getting things done in a future post...